## Prerequisites

1. Vivado 2019.2
2. Python 3
3. A few python packages: `pip install tqdm rich`

## Development

The Vivado project file can be found in `proj/regex_copro/regex_copro.xpr`.

## Testing a single regex/input

To test if a single regex matches a single input

1. Generate input/regex files running `python3 scripts/generate_single/generate.py 'exampleinput' 'exampleregex'`
2. Update the file paths in `hdl_src/sim/AXI_top_tb_from_compiled.sv`, so that they match the ones generated by previous step
3. From Vivado, run the testbench `hdl_src/sim/AXI_top_tb_from_compiled.sv`

## Testing many regex/inputs

To test the correctness of the architecture, you can provide a set of inputs and regexes. A Python script will check the match of each regex with each input, and generate CSV with all the results:

1. `cd scripts/generate_functional_tests`
2. Run `python3 generate.py` to see usage. For example, you can run `python3 generate.py input_protomata_selected.txt protomata_filtered.txt compiled_regexes ../../cicero_compiler/ 0`
3. Update `base_path` in `hdl_src/sim/AXI_top_tb_multiple_tests_from_csv.sv` to match the path of `scripts/generate_functional_tests`
4. From Vivado, run the testbench `hdl_src/sim/AXI_top_tb_multiple_tests_from_csv.sv`. It will run all the combination of inputs/regexes and print in case the architecture gives incorrect output.

## Synthesis

To synthesize many configuration of the architecture at ones, use `scripts/synth/synth.py`. For each configuration, it will create a folder within the `builds` folder. You can specify the configurations you want to synthesize by updating `CONFIGURATIONS` into `scripts/synth/synth.py`. To start the synthesis, run `python3 scripts/synth/synth.py True True`.

After the synthesis, you may want to copy the bitstreams to the FPGA board. An helper script is provided to automatically copy all the bitstreams into a zip file that can easily be copied to the board. For example, if you want to copy all the bitstreams in the `builds` directory and put the content in a file called `myzip.zip`, run:

```bash
python3 scripts/synth/extract_bitstreams.py "builds/*" myzip.zip
```

You may also want to compare board usage and maximum theoretical clock frequency for each configuration. You can use `scripts/synth/extract_usage_and_timings.py` to output a CSV file that contains relevant information for each configuration you want. For example, you can run:

```bash
python3 scripts/synth/extract_usage_and_timings.py "builds/*" util_and_timings.csv
```

## Run on board

To run on a board, you can use `scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/measure.py`. Make sure to be root, and have all the Python dependencies installed (`pip install rich tqdm` and `pynq`). The usage is the following:

```bash
Usage: measure.py <bitstream_file_path> <strings_file_path> <regexes_file_path> <output_file_path> <compiler_path> <regexes_count> <inputs_count>
```

Where:

1. `<bitstream_file_path>` is the path of the `.bit` file, there must also exist a `.hwh` file alongside it
2. `<strings_file_path>` is the path of the file containing the input strings. Each input string must be on a separate line.
3. `<regexes_file_path>` is the path of the file containing the regex patterns to be matched against the input strings. Each regex pattern must be on a separate line.
4. `<output_file_path>` is the path of the output CSV file.
5. `<compiler_path>` is the path to the compiler from Regex to Cicero ISA
6. `<regexes_count>` limits the number of regexes to be read from `<regexes_file_path>`.
7. `<inputs_count>` limits the number of input strings to be read from `<strings_file_path>`.

For example:

```bash
python3 measure.py /home/xilinx/src/higher_ccid_bitstreams/vect_cc_id_4_bb_n_1.bit protomata.input protomata.regex results.csv /home/xilinx/src/cicero_compiler_cpp/ 100 100
```

To check the correctness of the results, use `scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/check_results.py`, by specifying the `.csv` file and the file with the inputs that was used, for example:

```bash
python3 scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/check_results.py vect_cc_id_4_bb_n_9_brill_c++.csv ../scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/brill.input
```

## Benchmark on board

For benchmarking, we essentially execute `scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/measure.py` over all the desired bitstreams/regexes/inputs/compilers.

A wrapper script is provided, `scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/test_top.py`. First, update the constants in that script file to match the desired configurations you want to benchmark, and then execute it. A `.csv` file will be created alongside each `.bit` file for each compiler/benchmark.

You can then use `scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/aggregate.py` to aggregate all the results of the benchmarks. For example, if you want the aggregated output in `output.csv` and all the `.csv` from previous step are in the `measurements` folder, run:

```bash
python3 scripts/new_measurements/benchmark/aggregate.py output.csv "measurements/*.csv"
```